.TH PYZOR 1 "10 Oct 2002"
.SH NAME
pyzor \- spam\-catcher using a collaborative filtering network
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBpyzor\fP [\fB\-d\fP] [\fB\-\-homedir\fP \fIdir\fP] \fIcommand\fP [\fIcommand\_options\fP]
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-d\fP
turn on debugging
.TP
\fB\-\-homedir\fI dir\fP
use dir as the home directory for Pyzor instead of the default ~/.pyzor.
See the files section for more information on what files are inside of the
homedir.
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
\fBcheck\fP[\fB\-\-mbox\fP]
Reads on standard input an RFC 822 (email) message. Exit code is zero (0)
if and only if a match is found and the global whitelist count is zero.
.BR
If \-\-mbox is provided, then the input is assumed to be a unix mailbox, and
all messages in it will be checked.
.BR
If multiple servers are listed in the configuration file, the exit code will
be zero (0) if and only if there is a match found on at least one server
(without it being whitelisted anyplace).
.TP
\fBreport \fP[\fB\-\-mbox\fP]
Reads on standard input an RFC 822 (email) message. Reports to the server a
digest of each message in the mailbox as spam. Writes to standard output a
tuple of (error\-code, message) from the server.
.BR
If \-\-mbox is provided, then the input is assumed to be a unix mailbox, and
all messages in it will be sent to the server.
.TP
\fBwhitelist \fP[\fB\-\-mbox\fP]
Reads on standard input an RFC 822 (email) message. Sends to the server a
digest of each message in the mailbox for whitelisting. Writes to standard
output a tuple of (error\-code, message) from the server.
.BR
If \-\-mbox is provided, then the input is assumed to be a unix mailbox, and
all messages in it will be sent to the server.
.TP
\fBdiscover\fP
Finds Pyzor servers, and writes them to ~/.pyzor/servers. This may
accomplished through querying already-known servers or an HTTP call to a
hard-coded address.
.TP
\fBping\fP
Merely requests a response from the servers.
.TP
\fBgenkey\fP
Based upon a secret passphrase gathered from the user and randomly generated
salt, prints to standard output a tuple of "salt,key".
Used to put account information into the accounts file.
See the section Using Accounts for more information.
.TP
\fBdigest \fP[\fB\-\-mbox\fP]
Reads on standard input an RFC 822 (email) message. Writes the
digest of the message to standard output.
.BR
If \-\-mbox is provided, then the input is assumed to be a unix
mailbox, each message's digest is written to standard output, separated
by newlines.
.TP
\fBpredigest\fP
Reads on standard input an RFC 822 (email) message. Writes to
standard output the normalized lines of data that are digested, with the
exception that the lines printed have newlines (all whitespace is
removed before digesting).

.SH USING PYZOR WITH READYEXEC
\fBReadyExec\fP is a system to eliminate the high startup-cost of executing
scripts repeatedly. If you execute pyzor a lot, you might be interested
in installing ReadyExec and using it with pyzor.

To use pyzor with ReadyExec, the readyexecd.py server needs to be
started as:

   readyexecd.py socket_file pyzor

socket_file can be any (non\-existing) filename you wish ReadyExec to
use, such as /tmp/pyzor:

   readyexecd.py /tmp/pyzor pyzor

Individual clients are then executed as:

   readyexec socket_file options command cmd_options

For example:

   readyexec /tmp/pyzor check
   readyexec /tmp/pyzor report
   readyexec /tmp/pyzor whitelist \-\-mbox
   readyexec /tmp/pyzor \-d ping

ReadyExec can be found at: http://readyexec.sourceforge.net/
.SH INTEGRATION WITH MUTT
Add the following line to mutt.conf:

   macro index S "|/usr/bin/pyzor report"

Then press S on the spam message in mutt to report it with pyzor.
.SH FILES
\fI~/.pyzor/config\fP

The format of this file is INI-style (name=value, divided into [sections]).
Names are case insensitive. All values which are filenames can have
shell\-style tildes (~) in them. All values which are relative filenames are
interpreted to be relative to the Pyzor homedir.

\fBDefaults\fP
 [client]
 ServersFile = servers
 AccountsFile = accounts
 DiscoverServersURL = http://pyzor.sourceforge.net/cgi-bin/inform\-servers\-0\-3\-x
 Timeout = 5
.SH SEE ALSO
pyzord(1)
.SH AUTHOR
This manpage was originally written by Bastian Kleineidam
<calvin@debian.org> for the Debian distribution of pyzor but may be used
by others.
.BR
The main author of pyzor is Frank J. Tobin <ftobin@neverending.org>.  The
main project page for pyzor can be found at
http://sourceforge.net/projects/pyzor
